Lab 1: Android Basics (20 marks)

The purpose of this lab is to help you get started with mobile application development with Android.
Configuration note: When you create your app on Android Studio, be sure to select the option "Phone and Tablet". Assignments will be marked using an Android Virtual Device (AVD) running a Pixel 3a with API 33. You must use Android Studio (with Java as the programming language), this is what the TAs will use to load, build, and run your code. Submission note: Upload a zip file containing the following folders to Canvas: Code and APK.

The Code folder should include two subfolders: Question 1 and Question 2 with the corresponding Android code.
APK folder should only contain two .apk files.
Question 1 (10 marks): Create an Android application that allows users to switch between multiple images.
The app should contain the followings:

An ImageView to display an image. First, load four images into your drawable folder. Now, Load one image at a time into the ImageView based on the button click events (see the button click instruction next)
Add one text view below the ImageView showing the current image number (e.g., 1 of 4)
Add three buttons: “NEXT”, “PREVIOUS” and “RANDOM”. Pressing the o “NEXT” button loads the next image into the ImageView. Once a user reaches the last image (e.g., 4 of 4) and presses the NEXT button again, the application will show the first image (e.g., 1 of 4). o “PREVIOUS” button will show the previous image. Once a user moves to the first image (e.g., 1 of 4) and presses the PREVIOUS button again, the application will show the last image (e.g., 4 of 4). o “RANDOM” button will display a random image from the list of images Note: This can also be solved using ImageSwitcher. However, we will use ImageView for this question.
Grading Criteria:

UI Component:

[5 marks] ImageView showing an image, TextView showing the current image number, three buttons with proper layout

Functionalities:

[5 marks] The app shows correct images once the buttons are pressed

Question 2 (10 marks): Create an Android application that allows users to show the total price of an order based on some selected values. The app should contain the followings: Four text views to show four fruit names
• Four text views beside the fruit name to show the fruit price per lb
• Four spinners to show order amount in pounds (sample values: 0, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20) • A button with the text “Confirm” • A text view to show the total price Users first select fruit amounts from the drop-down boxes. Once they are done, they can get the total price of their order by pressing the “Confirm” button.

Grading Criteria:

UI Component:

[2 pts] Text views showing fruits and prices

[2 pts] Spinners showing correct amounts

[2 pts] A Confirm button and a text view for showing the final price

Functionalities:

[4] The app shows the correct price for the order
